# Japes Commpiler Toolchain

This repository implements the Japes Compiler Toolchain. 

## Licensing

The source code associated with this project are licensed under the [GNU General Public License version 3](LICENSE.txt); in order to solve the question about linking against the standard library or the toolchain, [the Classpath exception](claspath.md) is appended to it. You should have recieved a copy of both with this file. 

## Subprojects

The following subprojects are sponsored in this repository:

- `src/japes.toolchain.stage0` - Bootstrap compiler implementation
- `src/japes.jokes` - The J4 Macro Preprocessor implementation, stage 1 and beyond
- `src/japes.jinx` - The Jinx build system implementation, stage 1 and beyond
- `src/japes.jive` - The Jive Documentation Processor implementation, stage 1 and beyond
- `src/japesc` - The Japes compiler implementation, stage 1 and beyond 

## Vibe Coding Prohibited

This project makes no comment on the general state of generative artificial intelligence (AI) and its metaphysical properties except to say that the proposition of whether machines can or cannot be intelligent is not testable in the present. It is absolutely imperative that all of the code produced by this project is (to the greatest extent possible) free from defect. Pull Request (PR) acceptance is conditional on your code being free from work products (i.e., code, specifications, or documentation) derived from AI. When applied to the context of writing software, this practice is sometimes known as "vibe coding". This practice should be avoided at all costs within the repositories in `japeslang`. It is not feasible to prevent AI from analyzing the code and offering pointers. It is this project's current position to do nothing to prevent that. It is possible that generative AI may make a useful screening tool in any event.

Regardless of its future capability, generative AI at the time of writing has a reputation for its readiness to hallucinate. That's to be expected from any machine model (to say nothing of one that shares attributes in common with biological neural networks). Legality may vary by jurisdiction, but precedent is relatively convincing that non-humans cannot originate copyright. Models may unwittingly include patents to which no contributor may grant a license to, and they may lift code from textbooks which are still very much copyrighted. 

Support for AI was once made available in a rudimentary and easily broken form, but the offer was always rescindable, and this recission has occurred. It may not be undone barring an Support for AI was once made available in a rudimentary and easily broken form, but the offer was always rescindable, and this recission has occurred. It may not be undone barring an RFC; as RFC1 has not even been written yet, there is no plan to officially support this in the future. Therefore, the rights afforded to you respecting AI are the set of the rights you have always had. These are the rights given by a work product's license, which is mostly GPLv3 + Classpath (but which in some cases may include CC_BY_ND4.0 or MIT).  The vibe-code moratorium remains, however: no PR will be accepted if there exists unresolved suspiscion or knowledge of it containing work products generated by AI.